---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/Projects/Written Works/WIP/The Aspirations of Apollo Carver/2025-AoAC/"}
---

A magnificent cathedral seems as if it fell from the heavens into the golden fields it lay amongst. There is a well worn path to the holy doors, traveled daily by many who seek the community, comfort, and covenant within. A stone statue takes his post rightward of the entrance. 

This statue is life-sized but no greater, measuring five feet and ten inches in height. A small amount of moss has accumulated on his northern side, which is the side furthest the holy doors. The statue  possesses not quite bulky, but certainly a sturdy and broad-shouldered frame, complemented by locks of hair that are short but free and thus flow as they please. The man is poised sitting upon a rock, forearms hanging over his knees and bent forward with the sides of his hands at his temples and his fingertips pushing just under those short locks. His countenance is soft but contemplative, his palms like horse-blinders to keep him looking ahead and nowhere else.

The pose at first glance communicates some degree of distress, as if his thoughts are weights that have sat him here on this lonely stone and kept him chained there, but upon seeing his gentle face it is known that this man is not distressed – he is pridefully at peace. This man is a contemplative and does it well, and he knows that there is merit in such things. His thoughts do keep him there on that rock, but he is no slave to them. They keep him there in the way a good family keeps you in your hometown, or how the smell of your mother's cooking keeps you hovering in the kitchen in watchful waiting for each wonderful dish that she prepares. His thoughts are his friends, and he would not dare leave them.

This is seen in that there is the faintest glint of a satisfied solitude possessed primarily in his eyes that then manages to spread its way down the slope of his face into the form of the humblest of smiles, which in its self-satisfaction is sure to spread his lightness and joy to any onlookers spirit.

The placard reads: 
"A statue dedicated to Apollo Carver -
The only man who would have the right to take it down."

*100 years earlier.*

