---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/Personal/Periodic Notes/daily notes/2026 daily/2026-01-04/"}
---

# January 4th, 2026
[[Personal/Periodic Notes/monthly notes/2026 Monthlies/2026-01\|2026-01]]
## Sunday
Day of Year: 4
***

## Morning Notes:

The new year is here.
I’m a few days late to saying it, but it is.

There is an impetus to adhere now to some narrative of new beginnings, but I don’t find that particularly interesting. I feel more like a continuation than a beginning, and think that is the better way to be.


## Later in the day:

I’ve been thinking about awareness lately, which is a bit like saying that I have some words about writing. That is, I’m using a component of a process to understand itself. (Words as a component of writing, and thinking as a component of awareness.)

Thinking is of course one major component of awareness. I think another would be sensation, another one is imagination, and yet another could be called visualization. There are probably many more that I have not been able to think of just now, and I think that is pretty cool. 

Where we draw the line between one component and another is also probably pretty arbitrary. Visualization for example can have an obvious overlap with both thinking and imagination. Cool stuff.

## And the night:

I now find myself wondering at the purpose of those prior thoughts. A lot of it seems pretty intuitive. Anyway, here’s a short story about a fish, told from a first person perspective:

	*glug glug glug*

ok bye.
