---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/Personal/Periodic Notes/daily notes/2026 daily/2026-01-03/"}
---


# January 3rd, 2026
[[Personal/Periodic Notes/monthly notes/2026 Monthlies/2026-01\|2026-01]]
## Saturday
Day of Year: 3
***

[[Misc/To Be Sorted/Recursive Self-Analysis\|Recursive Self-Analysis]]

A man wakes up in his childhood bedroom, the same as he has since he was five. The screens start here.

- Screen 1 - Instagram. Reels are a focus. Ex-girlfriends are ignored. Transition to a Minecraft video on YouTube, interspersed with shorts of emerging tech and politics. It seems that something has happened in Venezuela. Of course, Nothing really ever happens.

- Screen 2 - Disney+. The show “Its Always Sunny In Philadelphia” brings great joy… oh, that one’s on Hulu isn’t it? His mom has the bundle of course. With ads, but still a good deal.

- Screen 3 - A laptop-powered command station in the basement with a screen for: YouTube, some music, and a overly-manicured notetaking app. The notes are taken on a TV with a lamp precariously perched atop, which makes him feel unique and creative. Who else would think to do something like that? An ant crawls across the face of his TV screen, making him feel substantial less clever.

He drinks an off-brand diet soda that his mother bought, coupled with a handful of peanuts as a protein source. It is 11:42 pm – strike that, 11:43 pm. He woke up to start his day two hours ago. As he takes his notes, he regrets his use of em-dash, which will indubitably sow doubt as to his writerly integrity. Punctuation has become such a chore. 

He is ready to change the world.
He submits his daily journal to an LLM for analysis, looking for critiques in equal measure with affirmation.

After taking a few of the generated notes into account (nothing more than the grammatical ones of course)  he makes a few edits, then posts to his personal website. 

Maybe someday people will read this, he thinks.
Maybe he’ll be right about it all.
And then all of this will make sense,
in a sort of retroactive way.
And then everyone will see.
All of them will see.

Now, back to the YouTube videos.