---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/Misc/To Be Sorted/Nuremberg and The Bread Of Brains/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---



I watched a movie about Nazis today. It was ‘*Nuremberg*’, starring Rami Malek as Dr. Kelly, an American psychiatrist with the unenviable task of speaking with Hermann Goring (with two dots over the O, which I do not know how to type) who was second among the Nazi High Command. It follows his relationship to Goring and tracks the growth of a friendship between them as a focus, with the looming and inevitable destruction of that fondness being a great source of cinematic drama.

It struck me while watching to consider a group not portrayed much within the movie, which was the German public. I often wonder how much the average German citizen knew of the concentration camps and how much was unknown to them. I also wonder how much moral responsibility the average German citizen should be bequeathed for the tragedy, given that the alternative to deference to the regime was to attempt some sort of protest, which would undoubtedly be received with something of an illiberal response from any sitting figure, most likely amounting to the death of any dissenting voice. ‘Flee the country then’ is a common response to the moral quandary of the un-nazified German, but I find that this to be likewise something of a shirking of civil responsibility. 

Quiet dissent from the inside is the most useful option that I can see, like those who illegally housed Jewish citizens in their attics and crawl spaces from patrolling officers. I think that this is the consensus opinion and I am relieved that I have not arrived upon a controversial opinion herewithin, as such a subject of discussion as the Holocaust is not one in which I would like to be a ‘devil’s advocate’ so to speak. In any event this has gotten me to consider belief-formation more broadly, and has thus served as a preface to the following loosely-related thoughts. 

Most people believe what they believe simply because it is what’s around. Like eating whatever is in the fridge when we are hungry, our minds take in what is in the semantic environment whenever we need something for it to chew on. That ‘something’ that we find of course is not always healthy, and is oftentimes something that will cause us harm, or will make us do harm to others. I do not think it is melodramatic or overly-earnest to say that among the victims of Nazism for example, I would consider among the ranks of victims those who waved its flag without knowing the extent of its implications, and who would never have done so had they been knowledgeable of the extent of the horrors to be perpetrated by their leaders. A great many I would suppose were lured by a false but understandable sense of nationalistic pride, and fell privy to the implications only when the mask of the regime fell away to show its truly monstrous face. I would say the same is often true for those currently or previously within the MAGA movement, the comparatively pacifistic flat earth movement, and many more movements of the kind which are all defined by a profound arrogance and ignorance among the preachers of these doctrines, and a likewise profound naivete among their hope-starved converts.

Man cannot live on bread alone, and when he cannot bake his own he is forced to eat the bread of others – others who often do not have an interest in baking purely for the love of the craft, so to speak. We can say to these starving peoples that they ought learn to cook bread for themselves, and indeed it would be best for the world if they miraculously did. However, it should be considered by that person who argues this point whether or not they themselves have learned to bake their own bread, or if perhaps they have benefited from great and learned bakers who took the time to teach them how to follow this path, without whom the apprentice bakers of the world would all be just as thought-starved as the rest. I have found that there are very few true self-initiating people in this world regarding either bakery or philosophy, and so very rarely should this line of speech be taken; certainly much more rarely than is so. 

For fear of being misread I will make it clear: I do not apply this standard to the preachers and propagandists of these false doctrines. I do not apply it to the red-faced or the hate-filled, and I likewise do not apply it to those who are willfully ignorant and turn a blind eye out of fearfulness of those wild-eyed maniacs who spout their hatred. This is an act of cowardice on the part of the fearful, and such a spirit is not of a similar disposition as what I would best hope to be my own or of those who I know. It is clear to me that feigned ignorance is categorically distinct from true ignorance, and while for the truly ignorant I hold pity, for those who feign it I hold only the deepest discontent. The man with a pantry filled with flour cannot complain simply because nobody read his recipe book aloud to him.

There is much value to be had in ideas, and it is much more than what most people assume these days. In fact,  I would believe that ideas are the future of economic activity in a very dramatic way that i will not make a large fuss of now, partially for the purpose of succinctness and admittedly in part for the purpose of buying myself the time to prove such an ambitious assertion. But yes, ideas hold water, and knowing how to work with them is an immensely valuable skill. To learn to knead the dough of one’s own mind is a skill that is at the very least useful for the liberation of the individual, lest their mind not be kneaded by another of malintent.

If you enjoyed reading this I firstly want to thank you for reading it, as being read by others is one of the primary ways for a writer to justify himself, second only to sheer madness. Secondly, I would encourage you to read more of my writing, which I do for the same reason as thanking you for reading this. Either way, I hope that this was in some way illuminating, and if it was I will now trust you to do with that found fact what you find most appropriate. That is all.